# Methodology

## Concept
Top-down

## Stock-Driven Demand Projection
One key question in prospective material flow analysis is the modelling of future material demand.
Models can be either inflow-driven or stock-driven. In inflow-driven models, demand is modelled first and drives future developments of the in-use stock together with the lifetime model. Stock-driven models, on the other hand, assume that the in-use stock of a material is what provides a service to society, and is therefore the quantity that should be projected as a function of time or GDP, and material demand should be derived from stock change and stock replenishment (Haberl et al., 2017; Lauinger et al., 2021; Pauliuk & Hertwich, 2016).
In REMIND-MFA, we choose such a stock-driven approach, in line with relevant literature in the field (Pauliuk et al., 2013). We use this method to derive a baseline scenario without circular economy (CE) interventions. We assume in-use stock per capita to be a function of GDP per capita (GDPpC). In particular, we assume it to behave like a logit function of the logarithm of GDPpC, which is in line with historic trends. Using historic production data, we calculate historic in-use stock development over GDP. We use these historic stocks to regress the parameters for future stock developments. We do this for separate in-use stocks in different product categories, which then add up to the total in-use stock. For each product category, we regress a common set of parameters for all regions. However, since historic data in single regions deviates from these curves, we apply region-dependent correction terms, which form a smooth transition from historic trends to the common regression. Scenarios with CE interventions are derived from the baseline scenario by adjusting the regress parameters (such as stock saturation levels) or the input parameters (such as lifetimes or recycling rates), or by modifying material demands after regressing them.

## Trade
REMIND-MFA includes trade in different stages across the life cycle. Those are raw material trade, trade of materials embedded in goods, and trade of end-of life scrap or waste. Material-specific exceptions apply.
There are two different methods for modelling of future trade: by simple extrapolation or as price-sensitive trade.
In the simple extrapolation, future trade is modelled as a function of two terms: a fixed fraction of supply or demand of the material at the specific stage (e.g., scrap exports as a fraction of scrap supply), and the absolute trade volumes in the last historic year. In particular, the square root of the product of both was applied. Imports and exports where then scaled in a second step, such that global imports and exports are equal, i.e., that international trade markets clear. Trade is modelled as a pool trade here, i.e., the trade flows of each region have no shares of trade partners defined.
Apart from this, an early version of a price-sensitive trade module was implemented. This model is based on a logit discrete-choice model, with the choices of imports from different regions, or domestic production. The model reacts to temporally changing supply curves (i.e., price structures) in different regions by adjusting trade shares, but it never fully chooses only one option, which corresponds to patterns seen in practice due to heterogeneity of the traded products. Cost penalties for trade are implemented and calibrated to historic data. The implemented cost curves are so far synthetic but will in the future be provided by REMIND IAM. This price-sensitive trade module is used only in the steel MFA model so far.
